I'm honest yen well okay so I think you
raised two interesting questions here
you know the third point you made is
really just the difference between early
adopters versus who will be the adopters
when it's a mature movement but part of
omens we don't we don't know who else
will adopt it I mean you know maybe
because again I'm open to this I just
made this video saying I am NOT
left-wing but once were past the early
adopters phase maybe veganism is going
to be even more left-wing like maybe
because I mean historically veganism and
animal rights have been received very
poorly by traditional the traditional
labor left it has been very hostile to
become an animal Rises add no buzzing
but okay maybe in the year twenty forty
veganism has taken that over and vice
versa because I mean the labor unions
are falling apart anyway maybe so like
maybe and maybe the left wing of the
Democrat Party in the US and in Canada
the NDP maybe those have really become
Majority vegan like that's one possible
future so I can talk about the
difference between early adopters and
one it's a robust movement but i don't
really know like you know it would also
be a false assumption for me to assume
that veganism is going to cluster around
the middle of the political spectrum it
could just continue to grow to the left
and matt new yen hey guys just a short
clarification this is actually the third
video on this channel of myself speaking
with a lawyer based in washington DC
called Stephen fight the first video is
over an hour long you can still go back
and see that one great discussion worth
seeing the second video I just wept
uploaded a few days ago he's an excerpt
from a podcast that's one hour and 40
minutes long you can get that podcast
from patreon click on the link below
this channel and pay one dollar per
month to support the creation of content
of this kind and support my survival oh
here engine and China on the border with
Myanmar but look just to avoid any
confusion this is actually the third
video in total that have uploaded
dialogue to me in this particular fellow
and it is the second and final excerpt
that I'm uploading to youtube but if you
click on patreon get here the whole
conversation in all its unedited glory
you know it's terrifying and I mean you
know this comes back to the reckless
optimism you're talking about earlier
that you use on cv gan's expressing that
some of the whole world is going to
become vegan I'm familiar with that kind
of misplaced optimism because it
happened it happened actually both with
Buddhism in the Western world so the
Western adoption of Buddhism and it
happened just before that with the
Western adoption of Hinduism you know
there was a time back when the Beatles
so this is the rock band the top ten
rocked them back when the Beatles
briefly became Hindu you know there was
this wave of optimism that suddenly a
certain form of dumb down westernized
translated in english hinduism was going
to become massively influential in the
Western world and not without reason
like if you just look at the percentage
growth per year you know year-on-year
you had a couple of years in a row there
where these can do foundations in
California and in New York were growing
very rapidly and their number of
adherents and they were being on you
know the cover of newspapers and
magazines and much talked about they
suddenly had a high profile and they
also suddenly had a lot of money and in
many ways Buddhism tera vaada Buddhism
is mostly when I'm talking about here no
I'm not a Zen Buddhism is a slightly
different history but you know tera
vaada Buddhism especially very much
tried to reproduce this this way is and
there's done you can look at some you
can even look at Buddhist publications
in the 1980s that are really
optimistically talking about Buddhism is
exploding in America and in Canada that
suddenly like millions of white people
are going to be practicing Buddhist now
it never happened it's not just possible
that veganism will similarly collapse
that way that it'll have its day being
on the front page of the newspaper and
then fade we're in much greater danger
of that because among other things we
don't have the money you know those
Hindu foundations a lot of them are
shameful but they got millions of
dollars and they built universities
within the United States and around the
world they built Brixton
order big institutions they built
temples but you know the there was real
money involved and where there's money
there's a certain kind of institutional
durability I don't see that happening in
veganism at all and you know the
possibility of veganism receding to
being a shadow of the level of influence
that has right now however small levels
me that's that's very very real to me I
have one more thing to be pessimistic no
I think that's interesting that's a
really valid concern um I can I guess
business with no claims of effective
activism or anything any I had no
evidence to support this I just given
the the waters of the statistics
something like eighty six percent of
people who go vegan end up reverting
back to non vegan lifestyle I have to
believe that there or I do believe that
that is in large part due to just be
social and logistical difficulty of
maintaining that lifestyle just that
yeah that I'm sure I'm sure there is a
component of that that is people truly
are just like but I want to be addicted
but you know what i mean like they can't
shake the cravings for animal foods or
they can't deal with the social pressure
even if there are vegan options at
chipotle they still feel like they're
being made fun of i'm sure that's part
of it but well I mean all add on my I'm
going to interrupt your midst ends here
I think the other this is the other
sense in which I really want to talk
about community not a Facebook group but
real community in the real world there's
this other big element of moral suasion
so you and I both are Jewish to some
extent
uh you know you can have people who are
involved with Judaism because they're
positively motivated to be part of the
community right and you can also have
people who adhere to the religious laws
of Judaism maybe even rules they don't
particularly respect you know particular
customs particular religious observances
because of the moral suasion of the
community because they don't want to be
excluded from the community they don't
want to be punished or look down upon by
the community right so to be blunt
there's both the sense of wanting to be
part of a Jewish community that actually
exists that is not a Facebook group and
there's also an aversion to being
perceived as a bad Jew by one fellow
Jews right that's heavy that's a heavy
trip I mean for a lot of people whether
you've seen that in a family dispute or
something else to have a guilt trip put
on somebody that they're you know
they're they're letting they're letting
the group down you know now on on a
microcosmic level you see that because I
really do think this is part of the
statistic whether it's cystic is
eighty-six percent or whatever a very
very large number of beacon see Stevie I
know a lot of vegan women including some
of the vegan women try to start
relationships with me who have men in
their lives who drag their feet and only
become vegan because their girlfriend
insists on it because their wife insists
on it right so after they break up why
would you why would that man be vegan
anymore you see now again uh if someone
converted to Judaism only because they
married a Jewish woman and i actually
have known some examples of that well
then if you get divorced what kind of
moral suasion is on you either
positively or negatively so now look I I
gotta put in a foot in here I'm not
saying this because I want to trick
people into veganism who don't really
want to be vegan I think that's
ridiculous but if we're if we're trying
to understand a number like that and the
durability of veganism as a
movement I do think that a very
significant percentage of those people
you know yes the tech the difficulty of
remaining vegan is one thing but I do
think the the absence of community in
that sense it is both chicken and egg
it's both that people are getting a
vegan girlfriend and then going back to
eating meat when they break up with that
girlfriend and also that they they don't
have any of that push or pull of being
engaged in a community to make them feel
so that they would feel bad if they
became a bad vegan or where they
positively want to be vegan because they
want to be part of the movement that we
got going on you know and and people
make sacrifice the only sacrifice just
be part of the Green Party the Green
Party is not is not nearly as rewarding
as as being part of a jewish community
center or something you know being being
Jewish is not that great but you know
you get you get to go to some picnics
you get to talk to some you know so yeah
I've seen that definitely even just with
something as pathetic as the Green Party
that you have a little bit of a
community there and you get that type of
change in people's motives and behavior
yeah no I mean that's totally right and
I don't want to make it sound to
transactional but but in a real blunt
way like when you go vegan what do you
get you get I know that do you get you
know do you get friends do you get a
place to spend your afternoons or
evenings or your weekend do you get you
know do you get any kind of social
capital any career advancement
opportunities I mean these are things
that even with relatively loose ties to
a Jewish community you just walk into
your jewish community center or temple
and it's all there for you there they
have on the website like do you want
friends are you single are you looking
to date people do you need a job do you
want to volunteer but it's all there I
know and we yeah you is and I think the
amount into distress is I
I think that there is obviously there's
a blurriness here but like there's a
degree to which all the things we're
talking about building a community in a
lot of ways obviously if you're vegan
restaurant serving food but they don't
really have anything to do with veganism
or they let stay with veganism and
they're just about the people who are
vegan yes and and I think that where I
think there's I think there's also like
a crypto version of this in there are
there are these weird clusters of
personality traits or points of interest
you've raised the issue of mental health
and eating disorders there's also just
sort of this you know anarchists
anti-establishment anti-capitalist sort
of strain that runs through it and it
and I'm really quite conflicted because
it I don't know my instinct is not to do
this but I don't know if it makes sense
should we be really building
institutions in our populations that
cater to these desires should we do have
those vegan anti-gmo lobbying groups and
esophagus GMOs have anything to do with
veganism but just because vegan seem to
hate GMO I actually I also feel pretty
strongly that I haven't thought this
through that that much but i find the
kind of people and maybe it's just the
most vocal people to people on youtube
the people who post in facebook groups
the folks who are attracted to veganism
are I don't know what ties them all
together but it's not it seems like it's
not maybe this is wrong I'll just say it
you can be like well with no you're
totally wrong but it seems like it's not
just average people like if you took a
cross section of the vegan populations
you wouldn't have the demographic and
personality profiles of like the average
whatever group of people you
yeah it seems like there is a lot of
this sort of Fringe looking for new
lifestyles and a thing which is which so
for me I live in a really weird place
where in the in the vegan population I'm
probably among the most mainstream and
you know little feed conservative I'm
certainly on that end of the spectrum
and then compared to like the population
of even a super progressive city like DC
I'm quite far to the left well okay so I
think you raised two interesting
questions here you know the third point
you made is really just the difference
between early adopters versus who will
be the adopters when it's a mature
movement but part of omens we don't we
don't know who else will adopt it I mean
you know maybe because again I'm open to
this I just made this video saying I am
NOT left-wing but once were past the
early adopters phase maybe veganism is
going to be even more left-wing like
maybe because I mean historically
veganism and animal rights have been
received very poorly by traditional the
traditional labor left it has been very
hostile to because minimal Rises add no
buzzing but okay maybe in the year
twenty forty veganism has taken that
over and vice versa because I mean the
labor unions are falling apart anyway
maybe so like maybe and maybe the left
wing of the Democrat Party in the US and
in Canada the NDP maybe those have
really become Majority vegan like that
that's one possible future so I can talk
about the difference between early
adopters and when it's a robust movement
but i don't really know like you know it
would also be a false assumption for me
to assume that veganism is going to
cluster around the middle of the
political spectrum it could just
continue to grow to the left that's not
even hard to imagine that's not that not
that implausible before you were asked
social you know the fact that we can
criticize the cross-section of vegans
we've got now is merely being really
adopters that's very true and very
useful but that doesn't mean we can
guess which where the future goes I've
raised up challenged people repeatedly
by saying look you think you know the
future of veganism but you're not even
thinking about the Hindus you're not
even thinking about the Buddhist and I
do think those are really significant
queuing factors so there's two examples
you know but maybe the clothing industry
maybe there's something I'm not thinking
about the dynamic role you know the
vegan veganism in the clothing issue we
were just talking about restaurants but
we don't talk about the clothing
industry so much the clothing industry
certainly has the money and cloud and
organization to may have a big impact if
they want to you know what I mean so you
could have you could have leadership
from from an unforeseen position that
has those again skewing the factors for
the progress meant you ask a question
that I'm really well prepared for
because of my experience with the Green
Party you ask look when you join
veganism what do you get it's a crucial
problem and i can remember saying that
directly to the Green Party of Canada
and the leadership not being able to
answer i said look people sign up and
actually pay money to join the Green
Party and what do you get let's actually
draw a flowchart like I'm seriously
challenged they know you have to think
through step by step because the reality
is people are walking up and paying
thirty dollars you know students get
amount of money and their money goes
into a hole and disappears and they get
nothing or they get a button that says I
joined the Green Party and nothing else
and they never hear back from you again
for four years no the next election you
know so let's actually you a photo of
what what do you get when you join and
certainly for a vegan foundation for an
actual organization you have to look at
that very carefully if ppl donate money
or join you know what you get in canada
we have an old saying for my thing to
1960s it's possible it's older than
another but i would guess it's either
1960s or 1970s which was so in canada we
have three main parties instead of just
two in the united states to say this is
the same people join the conservative
party to get drunk they joined the
Liberal Party to get laid and they
joined the NDP to get pamphlets
so uh and they're used to really be some
truth to that you're talking about you
know the social elements or the social
elements of going to a Jewish temple or
you know joining a mainstream compartir
leave the Conservative Party the
decimals tradition small towns in Canada
if you were looking for a job going to
conservative party meetings was a good
way to meet employers or people you
could be in business with or without be
there was really a you know that was a
crucial form of social capital I don't
know if that's true today I just don't
know but certainly in the 1970s that was
really really true a reason to be
involved in a political party and there
really was something you would get you
would actually go and get drunk and meet
you know maybe meet your future wife and
meet your future boss or business
colleague um and the joke there
implicitly is that the most left-wing
party is lacking these things that if
you join the left-wing party all you get
our pamphlets you don't get drunk you
don't get laid you don't get any other
social capital um when you're looking at
these kinds of social movements in a
dynamic period of growth which is what
we think veganism is in the other
question is are you going to cater to
vegans as they are or do vegans as they
should be and that may sound like an
academic point but it's not it's not
academic at all if you're in the Green
Party and you have only a couple hundred
people involved like in Canada it's a
couple hundred people are you going to
write articles and produce material and
politically campaign in a way that
reaches out and rewards those few
hundred people makes them happy like you
were saying before like okay maybe it's
hysteria over genetically modified
organisms could be anything you know
some particular issue that really
shouldn't be in your mandate or you say
no this is not what the green party's
about the Green Party is supposed to be
serving a larger function a higher ideal
we're supposed to have this mission that
serves everybody in Canada that serves
some long-term goal that may be defined
scientifically and socially yokas but it
is partly scientific when you're talking
about ecology we have this mandate
actually has nothing to do with the
couple hundred losers who just happen to
be the fringe elements who signed up
when we were first getting started all
right and you can even be in a situation
where you have contempt for your current
supporters on behalf of the people
you're imagining as being your future
supporters I think all kinds of
organizations go through that you know
you could even just be having some kind
of a public service you know if you're
doing a library or actually in a wheel
sub tradition of library trucks you know
a truck that goes around bringing books
to a community well do you actually
provide the books that people want to
read or do you provide the books that
they should read there's a problem with
prison libraries you know are you get
are you there to provide a certain
quality and caliber of book or just the
books that i should get asked for so
yeah that tension i think is fundamental
and I just feel well rehearsed for it
because that they're gonna that's
interesting and again I don't want to be
too harsh on all our fellow vegans I
mean I'm happy to criticize them for
lots of things but not for being who
they are it's just they don't realize
that if our goal is to bring more people
into our movement if we call it a
movement necessarily we're going to
dilute so that we're not all politically
aligned we're not all culturally aligned
we may really have visceral hatred for
the beliefs of other vegans I mean you I
think it's really easy to imagine right
right now I think they're some
overwhelming majority of vegans at least
the ones that I've been exposed to and
spoken to are our pro choice when it
comes to abortion right and one could
imagine a situation where some
connection is made between pro-life
anti-abortion arguments and the sentient
animals I'm not suggesting that it will
happen but I've seen those you're right
that that exists that debate exists it
does already
you're quite correct oh yeah but yeah
just one could imagine the ranks of
veganism swelling aggressively with
folks who are staunchly pro-life and
that being a real conflict and like I
think we have to say if this is the
movement if we want to turn this into a
movement if we want to grow it like
that's what we have to want is to bring
people in who aren't just like us I
bunderson